Q) What did Chihuly claim (and why)? 
A) Dale Chiluly is claiming two glass blowers.
   Supposedly, these two glass blowers have copied Dale Chihuly's designs, and are making profits and selling knockoffs at several local galleries.
   The copyright-infringement suit and the world-renowned glass artist's publishing company, is asking for at least $1 million in damages.

Q) What did the defendants allege?
A) There is one basic argument in defendants position: "Concepts are not protected". They argue that
his works are inspired by things and concepts in the real world. Among these inspirations, Native American blankets, baskets or sea life are found. 
"You can't claim a copyright to an idea", said attorney Melvyn Simburg, who specializes in this area.
"A concept is not protectible," he said. "Anybody else can be inspired by a basket or a textile."
He exposes other examples of concepts that cannot be copyrighted, such as:
- Certain chord progressions that are common to a lot of music.
- Certain plot devices that are common to many plays. 
From his point of view, glass has similar characteristics that cannot be copyrighted.
 
Q) Do you think the influence, imitation or inspiration of another artist may be subject to copyright? Explain your point of view.
A) In my particular opinion, author rights must be only defended from the perspective of the originality in a "first to do something". 
But copyright should not go further, even for the perspective of the copy of a certain type of work.
Let say Chihuly was the first to populate glass blow works inspired by a certain fish. This is not enough reason to make him the owner of this kind of work. 
1) On the one hand, the reason he has popularized his works on these fish does not make him to be the owner of the rights of that certain fish. Surely, previous art of work can be found, even more if his inspiration is something present in nature. His only merit is to achive popularity for something that others could not popularize.
2) On the other hand, protecting by copyright a certain type of work, could prevent better artists to offer to the public better works inspired on the same idea. This could raise to impoverishment of the art in general.
3) Apart from that, copyright of ideas and artistics work could lead to a limitation of the art, in the sense that only certain recognized authors with high purchasing power could dedicate to detect other similar works from other artists and litigate against them. 

To summarize: art authors must only be protected in terms of originality, but ideas can not be protected as general concept.  
The only limitation should be Super Original authors (let say silkscreen paints from Andy Warhol) should be named if other author copies exactly the same format or is clearly inspired by it. But no further action.  Authorship and originality is enough competivity advantage in terms of art for a certain author to be enough recognized, both economically and professionally.

Q) In which sense can be said (based on this case) exercising intellectual property often requires violation of other individual property rights? 
A) Among individual property that could be violated by intellectual property, we find:
   1) Inspiration in nature is in fact a great individual property right. Of course nobody and nothing could appropriate of it, as it is somehow patrimony of all women and men around the world.
   2) Beside this, art is itself a individual property as well. Derived works in art can enrich the complete whole of work arts, and this is enough reason for not setting limitations on inspiration. As example, some music versions are clearly much better than the original, and allow the original version to be known instead to be lost in oblivion. Soft Cell's Tainted Love version is a good example of this fact.
   3) Creativity is a property right that should preserve on top of the other intellectual property. The only case where authorship should preserve is deliberate plagiarism that can be justified, in terms of exactly copies of a certain thing (text, for example). 
   4) Variety in terms of different points of view around a same thing is an individual property itself. Limitation of opinions and perspectives due to copyright is, simply, cutting rights to those who enjoy the different types of art.
