- Comparison among Free Software by Free Software Foundation, Free Software by Debian Free Software Guidelines and Open Software by Open Software Inititive:

  All definitions have common points on:

  1 - Freedom to use the program / No Discrimination on usage
  2 - Free to inspect and to adapt / Source Code availability   
  3 - Freedom to redistribute / Free Redistribution
  4 - Freedom to improve and redistribue improvements / Derived Works 

  Basically, definitions are very similar. However, taking into account previous common statements, main differences between concepts are:
  
  A) FSF concepts:
  - Short and clear concepts. Stated on a permisive way, based on "Freedom".
  - Can be considered more generalistic than the others.
  - Can be considered the less restrictive.
  
  B) Open Source further concepts:
  
  Provides some statements more specific:
  - Integrity of the Author's Source Code (Redistribution limitations are allowed if license provide a way to 
    distribute patch files with source code that modify the program at build time).    
    This statement supposes that this definition is a little bit more restrictive than the Free Software Foundation one.
  - Technology-Neutrality
  
  * It is stated using some limitations on "Must Not" statements, i.e:
  - No Discrimination statements.
  - License not specific to a Product
  - No Restricions on Other Software.
  
  C) Debian Free Software Guidelines:
  Is basically the same definition as the Open Software Definition one, so same peculiarities exposed previously can be applied. 
  Differences will be explained on next point.

- OSI Open Software and Debian Free Software definitions comparison:
  Basically, next statements are provided for both concepts:

  Free Software definition (by Debian):
      1.  Free Redistribution
      2.  Source Code
      3.  Derived Works
      4.  Integrity of The Author's Source Code
      5.  No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups
      6.  No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor
      7.  Distribution of License
      8.  License Must Not Be Specific to Debian
      9.  License Must Not Contaminate Other Software
      10. Example Licenses

  Open Source definition (by OSI):
      1.  Free Redistribution    
      2.  Source Code
      3.  Derived Works
      4.  Integrity of The Author's Source Code
      5.  No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups
      6.  No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor
      7.  Distribution of License
      8.  License Must Not Be Specific to a Product
      9.  License Must Not Restrict Other Software
      10. License Must Be Technology-Neutral
  
  Debian Free Software Guidelines were first proposed on 1997, by Bruce Perens as main author, although other Debian developers participated too. 
  Open Source Definition was created from the Debian Free Software Guidelines on 1998 with Bruce Perens and Eric S. Raymond, as an attempt to provide a more generalistic definition (not so linked to Debian).   
  They are almost the same concept. Open Source Definition just changes point 8 to avoid Debian particularity.
  Moreover this, Open Surce Definition removes Example licenses statement, providing an statement that emphasizes on Technology Neutrality.
