 1 - Free software foundation
    http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html
    The freedom to run the program, for any purpose (freedom 0).
    The freedom to study how the program works, and change it so it does your computing as you wish (freedom 1). Access to the source code is a precondition for this.
    The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help your neighbor (freedom 2).
    The freedom to distribute copies of your modified versions to others (freedom 3). By doing this you can give the whole community a chance to benefit from your changes. Access to the source code is a precondition for this.

    Summary:
    - Free to use
    - Free to inspect the code and to adapt it
    - Free to redistribute
    - Free to improve, and to redistribute improvements

2 - Open Source Definition 
    http://opensource.org/docs/osd

    1. Free Redistribution
    
    The license shall not restrict any party from selling or giving away the software as a component of an aggregate software distribution containing programs from several different sources. The license shall not require a royalty or other fee for such sale.

    2. Source Code
    
    The program must include source code, and must allow distribution in source code as well as compiled form. Where some form of a product is not distributed with source code, there must be a well-publicized means of obtaining the source code for no more than a reasonable reproduction cost preferably, downloading via the Internet without charge. The source code must be the preferred form in which a programmer would modify the program. Deliberately obfuscated source code is not allowed. Intermediate forms such as the output of a preprocessor or translator are not allowed.

    3. Derived Works
    
    The license must allow modifications and derived works, and must allow them to be distributed under the same terms as the license of the original software.

    4. Integrity of The Author's Source Code
    
    The license may restrict source-code from being distributed in modified form only if the license allows the distribution of "patch files" with the source code for the purpose of modifying the program at build time. The license must explicitly permit distribution of software built from modified source code. The license may require derived works to carry a different name or version number from the original software.

    5. No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups
    
    The license must not discriminate against any person or group of persons.

    6. No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor
    
    The license must not restrict anyone from making use of the program in a specific field of endeavor. For example, it may not restrict the program from being used in a business, or from being used for genetic research.

    7. Distribution of License
    
    The rights attached to the program must apply to all to whom the program is redistributed without the need for execution of an additional license by those parties.

    8. License Must Not Be Specific to a Product
    
    The rights attached to the program must not depend on the program's being part of a particular software distribution. If the program is extracted from that distribution and used or distributed within the terms of the program's license, all parties to whom the program is redistributed should have the same rights as those that are granted in conjunction with the original software distribution.

    9. License Must Not Restrict Other Software
    
    The license must not place restrictions on other software that is distributed along with the licensed software. For example, the license must not insist that all other programs distributed on the same medium must be open-source software.

    10. License Must Be Technology-Neutral

    No provision of the license may be predicated on any individual technology or style of interface.

3 - Debian Free Software Guidelines
    http://www.debian.org/social_contract.html#guidelines

    - Free Redistribution

    The license of a Debian component may not restrict any party from selling or giving away the software as a component of an aggregate software distribution containing programs from several different sources. The license may not require a royalty or other fee for such sale.

    - Source Code

    The program must include source code, and must allow distribution in source code as well as compiled form.

    - Derived Works

    The license must allow modifications and derived works, and must allow them to be distributed under the same terms as the license of the original software.

    - Integrity of The Author's Source Code

    The license may restrict source-code from being distributed in modified form _only_ if the license allows the distribution of "patch files" with the source code for the purpose of modifying the program at build time. The license must explicitly permit distribution of software built from modified source code. The license may require derived works to carry a different name or version number from the original software. (This is a compromise. The Debian group encourages all authors not to restrict any files, source or binary, from being modified.)

    - No Discrimination Against Persons or Groups

    The license must not discriminate against any person or group of persons.

    - No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor

    The license must not restrict anyone from making use of the program in a specific field of endeavor. For example, it may not restrict the program from being used in a business, or from being used for genetic research.

    - Distribution of License

    The rights attached to the program must apply to all to whom the program is redistributed without the need for execution of an additional license by those parties.

    - License Must Not Be Specific to Debian

    The rights attached to the program must not depend on the program's being part of a Debian system. If the program is extracted from Debian and used or distributed without Debian but otherwise within the terms of the program's license, all parties to whom the program is redistributed should have the same rights as those that are granted in conjunction with the Debian system.

    - License Must Not Contaminate Other Software

    The license must not place restrictions on other software that is distributed along with the licensed software. For example, the license must not insist that all other programs distributed on the same medium must be free software.

    - Example Licenses

    The "GPL", "BSD", and "Artistic" licenses are examples of licenses that we consider "free".
